About the Author
Sarath Lakshman is a 21 year old who was bitten by the Linux bug during his teenage
years. He is an undergraduate student of Computer Science and Engineering at Model
Engineering College, Cochin, Kerala.
Sarath is a life hacker who loves to explore innovations. He is a GNU/Linux enthusiast
and hactivist of free and open source software. He spends most of his time hacking
with computers and having fun with his great friends. Sarath is well known as the
developer of SLYNUX (2005)—a user friendly GNU/Linux distribution for Linux newbies.
The free and open source software projects he has contributed to are PiTiVi Video editor,
SLYNUX GNU/Linux distro, Swathantra Malayalam Computing, School-Admin, Istanbul,
and the Pardus Project. He has authored many articles for the Linux For You magazine
on various domains of FOSS technologies. He had made a contribution to several
different open source projects during his multiple Google Summer of Code projects.
He currently lives with his parents in Kerala. Sarath can be reached via his website
http://www.sarathlakshman.com.
I would like to thank my friends and family for the great support and
encouragement they have given me for all my endeavors. I would like
to thank my friends Anu Mahadevan and Neenu Jacob for the tireless
enthusiasm and patience to read through the chapter developments
and providing comments during development. I would also like to thank
Mr. Atanu Datta for helping me come up with the chapter titles. I extend
my gratitude to the team at Packt Publishing who helped me in making this
book happen.
About the Reviewers
Aric Pedersen is the author of cPanel User Guide and Tutorial (ISBN 978-1-904811-
92-3) and Web Host Manager Administration Guide (ISBN 978-1-904811-50-3), both
written for Packt Publishing. He also served as a reviewer for CUPS Administrative Guide
(ISBN 978-1-84719-258-5) and Linux E-mail Second Edition (ISBN 978-1-847198-64-8)
published by Packt Publishing.
Aric has over nine years of experience working as a System Administrator. He currently
works for Hostdime.com, the world-class web host; and also for Netenberg.com,
makers of Fantastico, the world's most popular web script installer for cPanel servers.
I would like to thank PMUG (http://www.pmug-nj.org/) for years of
interesting content and camaraderie.
John L Weatherwax has been in love with computers ever since he had access to
one. An applied mathematician by trade, he began his study of computer programming
with the Pascal programming language on the computer that his father bought way
before most people had even thought of using a computer for anything truly practical.
As an undergraduate, he obtained dual degrees in physics and mathematics from the
University of Missouri Columbia and as a graduate student he obtained a Ph.D. from M.I.T.
in Applied Mathematics. After graduating, he worked for many years applying pattern
recognition techniques to various problems in electrical engineering before transitioning to
mathematical finance. In school, he was strongly influenced by the UNIX/Linux philosophy
of using simpler component programs together to solve larger problems. Many years later,
while exploring various trading strategies as a quantitative analysis at a Wall Street firm,
he still uses UNIX commands and the UNIX philosophy on a daily basis. Most of the work
he does now is related to using mathematical models to predict prices and trade various
financial instruments. He spends his free time working on applied mathematics and pattern
recognition (much of which can be found on his website at http://waxworksmath.com/)
and spending time with his family.
www.PacktPub.com
Support files, eBooks, discount offers, and more
You might want to visit www.PacktPub.com for support files and downloads related to
your book.
Did you know that Packt offers eBook versions of every book published, with PDF and
ePub files available? You can upgrade to the eBook version at www.PacktPub.com and
as a print book customer, you are entitled to a discount on the eBook copy. Get in touch
with us at service@packtpub.com for more details.
At www.PacktPub.com, you can also read a collection of free technical articles, sign up
for a range of free newsletters and receive exclusive discounts and offers on Packt books
and eBooks.
http://PacktLib.PacktPub.com
Do you need instant solutions to your IT questions? PacktLib is Packt's online digital book
library. Here, you can access, read, and search across Packt's entire library of books.
Why Subscribe?
•	 Fully searchable across every book published by Packt
•	 Copy and paste, print, and bookmark content
•	 On demand and accessible via web browser
Free Access for Packt account holders
If you have an account with Packt at www.PacktPub.com, you can use this to access
PacktLib today and view nine entirely free books. Simply use your login creden
Table of Contents
Preface	
Chapter 1: Shell Something Out	
Introduction	
Printing in the terminal	
Playing with variables and environment variables	
Doing math calculations with the shell	
Playing with file descriptors and redirection	
Arrays and associative arrays	
Visiting aliases	
Grabbing information about terminal	
Getting, setting dates, and delays	
Debugging the script	
Functions and arguments	
Reading the output of a sequence of commands	
Reading "n" characters without pressing Return	
Field separators and iterators	
Comparisons and tests	
Chapter 2: Have a Good Command	
Introduction	
Concatenating with cat	
Recording and playback of terminal sessions	
Finding files and file listing	
Playing with xargs	
Translating with tr	
Checksum and verification	
Sorting, unique and duplicates	
Temporary file naming and random numbers	
Splitting files and data	
www.it-ebooks.info
1
7
7
9
12
17
19
25
27
29
30
33
35
38
40
41
44
49
50
50
53
55
63
69
72
75
80
81

